\[  07 FEB 2024 \]
Thinking about the POC (Proof Of Concept) and general direction of the project:
- Just needs to do obstacle avoidance in the beginning. 
	- If there's a human in front, avoid it.
	- If there's an obstacle, correct course
- We can focus on smarter navigation later, especially with human guidance / tugging

A few people can work on this obstacle avoidance POC while maybe some people work on the LIDAR smart navigation? 

I think in the beginning I think it's important to have a POC with LIDAR, maybe a simple camera, and then we can add a depth camera beyond that if we find it necessary.

Single camera + ultrasonic for cheapest results?? Don't need to overcomplicated, let's try it with this and see if we need more utility later.

Turtle bot 3 looks like is an open source project we can use for initial guidance.

Will probably have to use Gazebo + ROS for initial prototyping

\[ 11 FEB 2024 ]
# Design Components:

## Physical 
- The physical body of the robot and it's simulation
	- The body
	- The handle
	- Need to consider a mobile form factor as a big component of the design
- The design of the electronics and motors and sensors
	- Going to start off with just LIDAR and maybe a camera. Later going to implement Depth Camera if necessary, but it might be achievable with just LIDAR and cheap camera. 
	- Talk about pro's and cons of using:
		- LIDAR vs depth camera
		- LIDAR vs array of ultrasonic sensors
			- IR sensors are very noisy and don't have as many open source solutions
		- LIDAR vs just regular camera
		- *How are we going to detect preferencial movement?*
			- Can use an ultrasonic sensor(s) to make sure the handler is the same distance away?
			- Do we need an IMU to measure the force the handler is putting on the robot
			- Can we just use some sort of pedal that the user can squeeze to dictate the speed

## Software
We're going to be using ROS. ROS is a software suite that allows for quick and easy building of autonomous robotic systems. 

In this framework, there's a few components:
1. Nodes / Packages:
	- Base unit for ROS.
	- In charge of handling devices or computing algorithms - each node for a separate task. Nodes can communicate with each other using topics or services. ROS software is distributed in packages. A single package is usually developed for performing one type of task and can contain one or multiple nodes.
2. Topics:
	- A data stream used to exchange information between nodes. Topics are used to send frequent messages of one type, such as sensor readouts or information on motor goal speed. 
	- Each topic is registered under a unique name and with a defined message type. Nodes can connect to the topic to either publish messages or subscribe to them. For a given topic, one node can not publish and subscribe to it at the same time, but there are no restrictions on the number of different nodes publishing or subscribing.
3. Services
	- Communication through services resembles a client-server model.
	- In this mode, one node (the server) registers a service in the system. Then, any other node can ask that service and get a response. In contrast to topics, services allow for two-way communication, as a request can also contain some data. 

Source: ROS documentation.

